In the previous video, we already build two
topology like this.
So here we have room number 1 which using the
first block subnet, and we also have room
number 2 which using second block subnet.
Now in this video, we are going to learn how
to connecting this two rooms.
To connecting different block subnet like
this, we will need a router.
Okay let’s just start.
Let’s import a router to our topology, go
to network devices, and here we have router.
In this case, I will use router 2811.
Next let’s connecting this two switch to
the router.
Actually, each interface in the router or
switch must be have a name.
In the real device, we will see the name of
the interface in the top of interface.
Let’s say fa0/1, fa0/2 and others.
In the cisco packet tracer, by default the
name of the interface is not shown like this.
To show the name of the interface, we can
go to cisco packet tracer and then preference.
Remember that if you use windows, the preference
menu is under edit.
Next here we can mark “Always show port
labels in logical workspace”.
Okay now we can see here that each interface
have a name.
So the router interface that connected to
switch 1 is fa0/0, and interface that connected
to the switch  2 is fa0/1.
Okay next we need to configure so all pc in
the room number 1 can communicate with all
pc in the room number 2.
To do that we need to configure ip address
on the router.
We will use first block subnet in fa0/0, why?
Because fa0/0 is connected to the room number
1 and room number 1 is using first block subnet.
And then we will configure fa0/1 with second
block subnet.
In this case, I will use the last ip address
of first block subnet for fa0/0, which is
30, remember that 31 Is broadcast address,
so we can not use 31.
Okay let’s open the router, go to config
menu, and here we can see fa0/0.
Here we need to change the interface status
to on.
If you see here, the color of interface is
red, but after we change the status to on,
the color now is green.
Next let’s configure the ip address, here
we will use the last address from first block
subnet, which is 10.10.10.30, and then the
subnetmask is 255.255.255.224.
Okay we have done for fa0/0, now let’s move
to fa0/1.
Here we will use the ip address from second
block subnet, in this case we will also use
the last address.
Which is 62, remember that we can not use
63, because this is broadcast address.
Okay here let’s change the status of interface
to on.
And then configure the ip address, 10.10.10.62
and the subnetmask is 255.255.255.224.
Okay now we have done configuring the ip address
of the router.
Next we need to configure default gateway
on all pc. The gateway will be the ip address
of router.
For all pc in the room number 1, the gateway
will be the ip address of fa0/0, which is
10.10.10.30, and the gateway for all pc in
the room number 2 will be the ip address of
fa0/1, which is 10.10.10.62.
Let’s configure gateway for all pc in the
room number 1 first.
The gateway is 10.10.10.30
Okay we have done configuring gateway on all
pc in the room number 1, now let’s configure
the gateway on all pc in the room number 2,
the gateway is 10.10.10.62.
Okay we have done.
Finally let’s test connection between room
number 1 to room number 2, let’s test from
pc 4 to pc 5.
The first test usually failed like this.
Let’s try again, okay here we can see that
ping from pc 4 to pc 5 is successful,
this is mean that connection between room number 1
and number 2 is ok!
To make sure, let’s try again from pc 2 to pc 6.
Okay the first test is failed, let’s try
again.
Here we can see that success.
Okay let’s just test again from room number
1 to room number 2.
Okay here we can see that this is also success.
So now we are successfully connecting room
number 1 with room number 2 using a router.
I hope you understand about how switch and
router work.
The summary is, switch is used to connecting
many pc that in the same block subnet,
and router is used to connecting many pc that
in the different block subnet.
Okay I think enough for this video
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video!